# CS-300

For this project the goal was to design an efficient system for storing, indexing and retrieving, and managing course information for a University's Computer Science department. I evaluated how different data structures perform when handling the operations within the project, such as sorting, indexing, and loading the data into the structure.

I approached the problem by analyzing each structure's time and memory complexity through tests. I initially wrote psuedocode for each data structure, then I performed the Big O analysis on each of them. As for roadblocks, one of the biggest was handling trade-offs between the different structures. The BST provided inherent natural ordering, which would be efficient for the sorting portion, but BST's can become inneficient if they are not balanced properly. Hash-Tables, which I selected to be the preferred data structure, provide faster average case access to an element, but it doesn't preserve the order. To fix this issue I broke down each structure into how it handled each portion, sorting, search, and insertion, and look at how they all differed before I made my choice.

This course has taught me the importance of selecting correct data structures for specific actions that a program will be taking. I have learned to evaluate structures based on their run-times which I believe will be a great help for me in the future when designing programs that work fast and efficiently. Also, my work on this project has been great for me as it consisted in writing a lot of psuedocode, which I formerly wasn't comfortable with. Now that I understand it better, through the examples given to us in the modules, I feel I will have a much easier time planning in the future for any project I contribute to.
